6 New Year's English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6 Minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Neil
And I'm Beth. It seems people around the world are in love with snacks
From old favourites like popcorn and crisps
To new inventions like the chocolate sandwich
Snacks are big business
With an estimated $1.5 trillion a year spent globally on snacking
Let's listen as British food historian Annie Gray
An Argentinian chef Barbara O'yavari
Tell BBC World Service program the food chain
What they like to snack on between meals
I like salted peanuts
And I love a banana
Preferably together actually I find that they hit the spot
My favourite snack is called Chippa
Is a small round bun made with cassava cheese, butter, milk and salt
Barbara's favourite snack is a cheese bread called Chippa
While for Annie it's the combination of peanuts and banana
That hits the spot and idiom meaning that it's exactly what you want
Neil, what's your favourite snack?
Well, I want to say something healthy but actually, you know, I really love a bag of crisps
Ah, me too, yeah crisps are good
Well, whatever you like to number on in this episode
We'll find out why we are so in love with snack food
As usual, we'll learn some useful new words and phrases
And remember, you'll find all the vocabulary and a quiz on our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com
Okay, but first I have a question for you, Beth
According to a recent Yugav survey
Which of the following snacks is most popular amongst Brits
Is it a crisps, b, confectionery and chocolate
Or c, savoury snacks and biscuits?
Well, we both just said crisps, so I'm going to say crisps
Well, we'll find out the answer later in the program
Someone with a professional interest in snacking is Christine Corkron
President of snack international
The trade association for the industry
Here, Christine shares her ideas about why we love to snack
With BBC World Service program The Food Chain
A snack is an affordable luxury
So if you've had a bad day or money is tight
This is something that you can turn to
And I think that is why you see it as so popular
Consumers, especially in the United States
Are looking for smaller, more convenient portions
They're not always going to be able to sit down and have three meals a day
Right?
So they're eating on the go-to
And the other thing that you see is this desire for very specific functional ingredients
Right?
So mental clarity, gut health, muscle development, these sorts of things
Again, they're nicely packaged in snack sizes
Snacks are often seen as a little luxury
But to be successful, a snack must also be affordable
An adjective meaning not expensive
Snacks which are cheap enough for most people to buy
Will sell even if money is tight
A phrase used to describe a situation where there's only just enough money to live on
Thanks to Snacks, today few of people sit down to eat a proper meal
Instead they eat on the go
If you do something on the go, you do it while you're busy travelling
Or moving around rather than at home
Many modern snacks target a specific function
For example, an energy drink might claim to improve your gut health or your mental clarity
A term describing a state of mind which is focused and engaged
Not dull or foggy
But not everyone is a fan of modern packaged snacks
Such as the bag of crisps and chocolate bars which fill our shops
Originally from Argentina, Barbara or Yavari
Now lives in Florida, USA
Here, Barbara tells BBC World Services the food chain
How she encourages her nine-year-old son to choose more natural snacks
Personally, I enjoy cooking and eating more natural, simpler snacks
But of course, I can't swim against the current and if my nine-year-old wants to eat
The little baked snacks that have cheddar
Ironically, it is something baked with cheese in it
Which is similar to what I enjoy, it's just the modern twist
Barbara wants her son to eat healthy, homemade food
Although he prefers modern packaged snacks
Barbara complains she can't swim against the current
The idioms swim against the current means to act differently from other people
Often because you do not mind being different
Well, Neil, all these snacks have made me hungry
Now isn't it time to reveal the answer to your question?
Yes, it is. I asked according to a recent U-Gov survey
Which of the following snacks is the most popular amongst breads, crisps,
Confectionary and chocolate or savory snacks and biscuits and the answer was
B, Confectionary and Chocolate
Which 45% of Britain's indulging weekly according to that survey
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned
Starting with the phrase hits the spot
Which describes something which is exactly what you want or need
If something is affordable, it's cheap enough that most people have enough money to buy it
The phrase money is tight means you only have just enough money to live
The idiom on the go means doing things while you're busy traveling or moving around
Mental clarity is a state in which your mind is fully focused and active
Not dull or foggy
And finally, people who swim against the current or the tide
Do or say things differently from most other people
Once again, our six minutes are up
But why not head over to our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com to try the quiz and work sheets for this episode
See you again soon!
Goodbye!